The Bubble Tea Culture of Young People in Ho Chi Minh City - A Cross-Cultural Exchange Between Taiwan (China) and Vietnam in the 21st Century
1 Introduction
Urban culture in general and consumer culture of urban youth in the 21st century, in particular, are issues that many scientists and managers have debated. Along with the process of development and integration into the global economy, the relationship of exchange and cooperation between Vietnam and other countries, territories around the world takes place in many fields, leading to a consumptive culture as well as a lifestyle of urban people, especially young people, are influenced to a certain extent. Culture in the 21st century is strongly influenced by globalization, leading to the emergence and spread of new cultural elements, becoming a new cultural phenomenon or literary class in the lives of urban residents. In Ho Chi Minh City, milk tea or bubble tea has become a favorite drink of young people, from schoolchildren, students to office workers, manyof whom have become followers of famous milk tea brands - most of which originated from Taiwan (China) [1]. With a cross-cultural perspective, we would like to partially decipher the research question: “Why do young people (schoolchildren, students, office workers,…) in Ho Chi Minh city adore milk tea more than coffee associated with the place and cultural identity of Vietnam?; For Taiwanese, “bubble tea is not just a drink, it is a culture” (Study in Taiwan, nd). Although it has been warmly received by young people in Ho Chi Minh City over the past 20 years, is there any scientific basis to raise milk tea to the culture of young people in Ho Chi Minh City? This is also the question of this research:
1.1 History of the Foundation and Development of Milk Tea in HCMC, Vietnam
From 2003 up to now, a series of milk tea shops have sprung up in Ho Chi Minh City; and when there is a famous bubble tea brand in Taiwan promoting and opening, many people (mostly students) line up in long lines waiting for several hours to hold a paper
cup of bubble tea showing the level of success of this type of beverage business in the Vietnamese market, especially in Ho Chi Minh City. [1]. When and did bubble tea appear in Ho Chi Minh City, and how did it receive enthusiastic support from some young people, even though many articles and reports in 2009 warned about the harmful effects of bubble tea, including toppings, sugar? With this research question, by searching for articles about the favorite drink of young people in Ho Chi Minh City, websites to study abroad and travel to Taiwan, we temporarily determined the time when bubble tea was present in major cities in Vietnam, including Ho Chi Minh City, since 2000 (Vietblend, nd) [2]. This drink from the beginning conquered and made students crazy, although, at that time, bubble tea was simpler than it is now - just a drink consisting of tea and milk mixed with a specific ratio depending on the ratio based on to the seller and shake it up, add black or brown bubble topping made from tapioca. Maybe from the same ingredients that make it, the name bubble milk tea is a common name for a drink originating from Taiwan that penetrates the life of urban youth in general, schoolchildren and students in Ho Chi Minh City in particular in the early years of the 21st century. According to the bubble tea recipients in its homeland, in order to satisfy the needs of young diners who love to experience and discover food, over time, the owners have created different flavors of milk tea, such as milk tea mint, strawberry, peach, apple, plum, coffee flavor, cocoa… As buyers, we realize that the bubble tea menu is rich and varied, from popular bubble tea shops to high-end ones [3]. Besides the names of fruit flavors, depending on the style of the shop owner, drinks made from tea, milk, and toppings are attached with very impressive names such as rainbow milk tea, love milk tea, fairy milk tea, honey & tea…; Black pearl hidden in a dream (black sugar, bubble, fresh milk); white cloud peak (white clouds on the top of the mountain), black bubble dancing (dancing black pearls), and so on. Talking about the history of milk tea in Ho Chi Minh City, it is impossible not to mention Gongcha - A brand from Taiwan established around 20 years ago (in 2000). It can be said that Gongcha has shaped its brand quite firmly in the hearts of Vietnamese youth with quality and delicious drinks. Since its introduction into the Vietnamese market, Gongcha has seen the opening brand for the bubble tea movement from abroad [4]. Currently, Gongcha has more than 22 branches in Ho Chi Minh City. After Gongcha, many famous bubble tea brands from Taiwan in Ho Chi Minh City, notably Ding Tea (opened in 2013), currently has 5 branches in Ho Chi Minh City. On April 6, 2017, Sharetea was officially present in Vietnam, with the first store opened at 113 Nguyen Hue, District 1, Ho Chi Minh City. Sharetea is also a long-standing famous bubble tea brand in Taiwan (since 1992) with more than 500 stores in more than 20 countries around the world, both in fastidious markets as well as in markets that do not like bubble tea such as Australia, Canada, Dubai, USA, and Singapore… currently have 5 branches in HCMC. Koi Thé is a famous brand in both Taiwan and Singapore [5]. When opening the first branch in Vivo City (2017), the first day of the opening lasted for a whole week; the image of a long line of people shows how successful the Koi Thé is in Ho Chi Minh City as well as in Vietnam. Currently, Koi Thé’s system has more than 20 stores in Ho
Chi Minh City. In addition, there are Xing Fu Tang, Uncle Tea, Teatime, R&B, Tien Huong, etc. Ten Ren has also been presented in Ho Chi Minh City for a while – Ten Ren is considered the oldest brand in Taiwan, established around 1953; however, Ten Ren has withdrawn from the Vietnamese market in August 2019. Currently, The Alley is the name emerging in the Vietnamese market with 25 branches in Ho Chi Minh City. Besides the famous Taiwanese bubble tea brands that have conquered young customers in Ho Chi Minh City for nearly 20 years, there have also been Vietnamese brands that have conquered the addictive drink market of Ho Chi Minh City’s youth, such as Phuc Long, TocoToco or Bobapop, not to mention the popular bubble tea shops selling in almost all school canteens, in the alleys and streets of the districts in Ho Chi Minh City. The statistics show that, at present, Vietnam has more than 1,600 brands of bubble tea, large and small scales, of which there are about 50 famous brands, most of which are from Taiwan [6, 7]. 2017 is considered the year of the rise of bubble tea in Ho Chi Minh City because, besides Taiwanese bubble tea brands, Vietnam also has a few brands from Hong Kong, such as Mr. Good Tea/Royal Tea; Korea – Amasvin/Uni House, Thailand –
Chamichi/Chapayom, Malaysia – Tealive, Going through the process of formation and development of bubble tea in Ho Chi Minh City in particular and Vietnam in general, we would like to draw some comments: bubble tea originated in Taiwan and was introduced to Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, around the early 2000s and is popular for young people. At the end of 2009, when negative information about the origin and quality of this product appeared continuously in the mass media, bubble tea also faced a period of difficulties because many parents changed their attitudes towards the drinks by banning, not giving money (elementary school age) to their children for buying bubble tea anymore [8]. The period after 2009 is considered to be the decline of the bubble tea market in Vietnam’s urban areas, and Ho Chi Minh City is no exception. It was not until famous Taiwanese bubble tea brands
such as Ding Tea appeared in Vietnam (in 2013) that they sparked a “fever” of milk tea across the country once again. And 2017 is considered a glorious year of the domestic bubble tea market with the explosion of a series of international brands (mainly Taiwan), Vietnam with market segments ranging from high-end to mid-range with a value of 282 million USD (according to Euromonitor’s valuation in 2016) [7]. 
1.2 From Bubble Tea Culture in Taiwan to Bubble Tea Culture in HCMC
For Taiwanese, bubble tea is not only a drink, but also a symbol representing the national culture. Taiwan is proud to be one of the best tea-producing places globally, and Taiwan’s tea ceremony is as sophisticated and famous as the Japanese tea ceremony. The art of making tea in Taiwan also requires the sophisticated technique and knowledge of tea masters. Interviewing international students, diplomats, and Taiwanese scientists, then comparing the experience of tea drinking culture in Taipei City (in 2008), we completely agree with many ideas that: the tea ceremony culture is so deeply rooted in the spiritual and cultural life of the people here that Taiwanese people often spend a lot of time in the day enjoying tea and “going to drink tea” or in other words, Taiwanese people drink bubble tea as popular as Vietnamese people invite others to drink coffee [8, 9].
Bubble tea appeared in Taiwan in the early 1980s. The first idea came from Mr. Nancy Yang-a Street tea vendor, to compete with other tea shops, attracting more young customers. Accordingly, Nancy Yang produced the idea of adding fruit, syrup, sugared
sweet potatoes, and bubble to his tea. However, in order for bubble tea to develop and become a symbol of Taiwanese culture, to conquer Asian and American youth, Australia, Canada… is a process with the participation of well-known enterprises in the tea industry in Taiwan. There is also a key factor - it is the media when the Japanese television station reported on this unique drink from the original hawker milk tea shops of Nancy Yang (Vyc travel, nd). In 1983, Mr. Liu Han Chieu, the founder of Chun Sui Tang Tea House brand in Taichung (a city in Taiwan), revolutionized tea culture when he developed a business model of selling iced milk tea to the Taiwanese. Since then, iced milk tea has become widely popular as a new trend in Taiwan. Not stopping there, in 1988, Lam Tu Hue - a product development manager of Chun Shui Tang, created a breakthrough for milk tea when providing more products called bubble milk tea [10]. When this kind of tea was introduced to countries outside of Asia, it was called by its English name “bubble tea”. The basic difference between the types of “bubble tea” is the ingredients at the bottom of the milk teacup, in other words, the toppings of milk tea are varied by diverse types, such as bubble with different flavors, jelly made from fresh fruit, pudding milk jelly, and some other beans… To fully enjoy a paper cup of Taiwanese bubble tea requires a separate straw because traditional small straws will be challenging to drink large bubbles [11]. Accordingly, bubble tea shops have created large straws with eyecatching color patterns so that customers can enjoy bubble and milk tea simultaneously. It can be said that Taiwanese bubble tea is a part of the daily life of the local people, an indispensable drink of many social classes: not only the lifestyle of young people but also the concern of those who enjoy tea because it is modified to suit all people. Customers can choose with sugar (in proportion) or without sugar, with ice, with little ice, without ice, different toppings, etc. In order to have the right bubble tea, the processor must know how to mix tea with milk so that it blends and is fragrant enough. Making a topping or brewing tea in the right quantity to achieve flavor is also the secret [5].
a. Tea: There are many types of tea with different tastes: Oolong, Red tea, Green tea, Black tea….
b. Milk: there are two types of milk: powder or fresh milk
c. Bubble: bubbles are made from cooked tapioca. There are two types - large seeds are usually supple, chewy, and sweet. Smaller seeds are a little crunchier.
d. Topping: usually Jelly, Pudding, fruit, jam, etc.
e. The ratio of sugar to ice is also a factor determining the taste of a paper cup of milk tea. This ratio usually has 5 levels such as: For Ices, you can choose no ice, little ice, half the amount of ice, extra ice, and normal. In terms of sugar content, there are also no sugar, low sugar, half sugar, added sugar, and normal.
A paper cup of bubble tea will be made with black tea, green tea, red tea, and hot oolong tea and then shaken well or mixed with an ice mixer. Then add topping, bubble, and black sugar. Bubble tea has brought Taiwanese tea culture to a new level, contributing to spreading milk tea culture to the world, including Vietnam. An international student studying a Master of Business Administration program in Taiwan said: “There are almost 50 brand bubble tea shops in each area, the popular ones being COCO, Jingxin, Yifang, etc. In addition to locals, famous shops often have visitors waiting in long lines to buy bubble tea. A glass costs about TW$50 (nearly 40,000 Vietnamese dongs). Taiwanese people like the COCO brand, which costs around TW$40–45/paper cup. In the chain of stores of the Chunxuitang brand - considered the founder of bubble tea - a paper cup of bubble tea is more expensive than other places, about TW$100 (nearly 80,000 Vietnamese dongs)” (interview HNC). Be diverse, easy to drink, and constantly innovative; this drink has been sweeping Vietnam, becoming an indispensable part of today’s youth dining culture. To be able to answer the research question: For Taiwanese, “bubble tea is not just a drink, it is a culture”, however although being present in Vietnam for nearly 20 years with warmly received by large numbers of young people in Ho Chi Minh City, in order to raise milk tea to become the culture of young people in Ho Chi Minh City, is there a scientific basis? First of all, we would like to check the definition of Culture of Director-General Federico Mayor, UNESCO: “Culture reflects and expresses in a general and vivid way all aspects of life (of each individual and the whole community) that have taken place. Over the centuries, in the past and the present, it has constituted a system of values, aesthetic traditions, and lifestyles on which each nation asserts its own identity” (Nguyen Tran Bat, 2017). Culture is an objective phenomenon, the sum total of all aspects of life. Even the smallest aspects of life also carry cultural cues. A lot of new things look similar at first glance, but if you look closely, there are differences. According to anthropology: Culture includes the behaviors and concepts that people learn as members of society. In anthropology, culture is the central concept used to explain why people do what they are doing. Anthropologists have shown that members of a social group behave a certain way because they have learned to behave that way, not because their genes have programmed their behavior. (E.A. Schultz and R.H. Lavenda, 2001, Anthropology - A Perspective on the Human Condition, National Political Publishing House). In order to understand culture objectively and comprehensively, anthropologists need to study cultural dynamics on both spatial and temporal dimensions. Mikhail Epstein, a researcher of Russian Culture and literature, has commented that if culture liberates people from nature, transcultural liberates people from the limits of culture itself (Center for Cultural research and theory, nd). In fact, urbanization and modernization under globalization have made the picture of large cities in Vietnam, specifically Ho Chi Minh City, more vibrant. The city is a space of cultural contact, interference and integration between
different domestic and foreign cultures, a place where business culture develops, where international culinary culture takes place, transcultural practices - not the reduction or confrontation of our cultural identities, but rather, the way we extend the boundaries of our ethnic, occupational, linguistic identities us and other identities to reach new levels of “identity” and indefiniteness (Mac Duong 2016). Ms. Huynh Ngoc Chau (26 years old, a former student of the Faculty of Anthropology, University of Social Sciences and Humanities, graduated in Taiwan) shared: “Before going to Taiwan to study abroad, I liked Koi Thé bubble tea. I tried the taste to compare, but from the menu to the drink’s taste, everything is different from what is in Vietnam. I
think Koi thé in Vietnam is better.” In addition, Ngoc Chau also said: “Taiwanese bubble tea is considered a national cultural symbol, but depending on age and interests, not all Taiwanese drink milk tea daily, the elderly can tend to switch to fruit tea and watermelon tea” (Interview on March 30, 2020). Compared with the traditional culture of tea drinking of Vietnamese people; Drift sweets are also made from glutinous rice flour, tapioca flour; …. Based on the theory of cross-cultural acculturation, definition on Culture of Anthropology and UNESCO, milk tea/bubble tea, etc. can still be considered as a cultural feature of a part of young people in HCMC. From the past to the present, Vietnamese people still enjoy tea for long life, from street stalls to teapots in families, offices, or luxury restaurants. Today, the tea culture in Ho Chi Minh City is vibrant and diverse: for the elderly and middleaged, sipping a cup of hot tea is the beginning of their meetings; close friends, of random exchanges to become friends with strangers; of receiving guests in the office, etc., but for schoolchildren, students… inviting each other to the shop to drink bubble tea, chatting is also a form of communication, a modern lifestyle. In addition, milk tea is called to
bring or buy to go; it is also a snack or dessert for young people, and office workers need to have more energy to study and work. With the research question: “Why are young people (pupils, students, office workers, etc.) in HCMC to be crazy about bubble tea – originated from Taiwan more than coffee mapped in Vietnam? Based on the research points of urban anthropology and urban Culture (Mac Duong, 2016), we believe that besides the long-standing traditional tea culture, coffee culture is considered a new cultural feature in the big cities in Vietnam, especially in Ho Chi Minh City where there are many coffee shops, many famous domestic and international coffee brands, etc. Cafes often serve various drinks, including bubble tea, to serve a wide range of customers. Although science has proven that coffee is a drink with many benefits for human health, coffee is not a drink for everyone. In a short interview by Zing.vn, 70% of respondents revealed that bubble tea is one of their favorite drinks. Many people said they are willing to spend 50,000–60,000 VND, even 100,000 VND for a paper cup of bubble tea. Explaining the attraction of bubble tea, many people said they love it because of its delicious taste and ease of drinking. Over
time, this drink is always refreshed by various rich and attractive scents and toppings (Kim Cuong, 2017). Vu Hai Dang (23 years old, an employee of Harvey Nash Company in Ho Chi Minh City) identifies himself as one of the big fans of bubble tea. She said that, on average, she drinks 2–3 glasses per day. “I drink bubble tea not only to quench my thirst, but I also feel relaxed and destressed. Currently, the shop has ‘sprung up like mushrooms’ with an extensive menu, but bubble tea is still my top priority and my friends like a habit that is hard to break”, one young interviewer said (Kim Cuong, 2017). My Tra (20 years old who is now studying in Japan) also thinks that she and a group of old friends are former students at the High School for the Gifted and are followers of bubble tea. She has tried all bubble tea brands Ho Chi Minh City and sometimes queued up for more than an hour to buy their favorite bubble tea and receive promotional gifts from shops such as red envelopes of lixi, etc. Before studying abroad, she consumed 4 large size cups in a week. When studying abroad in Japan, she still rewards herself with at least 1 drink per week. The reason I love this drink is because: chewy bubble, delicious to drink, cool, very balanced with the heat of Saigon,… Her 10-year-old sister, who is in 2nd grade at NBK Primary School, also loves bubble tea, especially the Alley brand. (Interview on April 2, 2020). For many young people in Ho Chi Minh City, drinking bubble tea is considered a personal hobby similar to other hobbies such as traveling, watching movies, reading books, playing games… Therefore, spending money to enjoy bubble tea is understandable. Ngoc Minh (22 years old, a student at the University of Social Sciences and Humanities, Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh City) thinks people should have a fairer view of bubble tea. “Why is it considered legitimate to spend money on other hobbies while drinking bubble tea is a waste? I feel happy when drinking bubble tea, and the money
spent is worth it. For me, buying bubble tea is a good thing. Just like a person who loves cosmetics buys lipstick, someone who loves fashion buys clothes”, [2]. “I like going to a bubble tea shop because there is an ideal space and nice drinks. Especially, when we study in groups or do homework, we can sit for a long time,” said Nguyen Gia Huy (20 years old), (RMIT University student) [2]. Through the opinions of young people who are schoolchildren, students, international students, office workers, etc., we can conclude that bubble tea is not just the name of another award-winning drink that is loved by young people but also it is the space of the shops, the style and number of famous bubble tea brand chains in Ho Chi Minh City that have confirmed to the bubble tea culture of Ho Chi Minh City’s youth. Bubble tea or milk tea is an indispensable drink in the drink menus of schools, hospitals, towns, alleys in Ho Chi Minh City… Nguyen Hue Pedestrian Street now has a new name: “Milk tea
street” with a collection of more than 20 bubble tea brands close together; Phu My Hung (District 7), Phan Xich Long (Phu Nhuan District); the area near Tan San Nhat airport, etc. are also the places with many famous bubble tea brands. The common image of
young people in this area is holding a paper cup of bubble tea in their hands, chatting happily, taking selfies with a paper cup of milk tea, etc.
2 Conclusion
When you ask the people of Ho Chi Minh City, what do you know about Taiwanese Culture? For generations of the 1960s and 1970s, they will talk about Taiwanese films The Bubble Tea Culture of Young People in Ho Chi Minh City 1003 with films that resonated once in Ho Chi Minh City in the 80s and 90s of the 20th century such as “Hải âu phi xứ” (Seagulls), “Dòng sông ly biệt” (Separation River), “Ngh˜ıa bất dung tình” (Real love)…; But for the 1990’s generation and later, they may answer - Taiwanese Culture is bubble milk tea. One proof that bubble tea is now seen as a symbol of Taiwan’s culinary culture, is the International Food Festival 2019, organized by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Vietnam on December 8, 2019. Combining 3 booths for presenting Taiwan’s special cuisine at the festival, the ROC diplomatic mission in Vietnam had a special introduction about bubble milk tea and this is also one of the products that the most guests attended; all 500 paper cups of bubble tea were sold out quickly after the festival program started. Previously in 2018, TAIWAN EXPO 2018 in Vietnam was held for three days in Ho Chi Minh City (July 26–28, 2018), in the space of scientific, technical and agricultural booths such as “Smart City Pavilion”, “Electrical Equipment Zone”, “Environmental Technology Equipment Zone” and “Orchid Industry Forum” had a booth named “Taiwan bubble Milk Tea Pavilion”. This shows that the Association for the Development of Foreign Trade (TAITRA), as well as the Taiwanese government, always consider bubble tea as a soft power of cultural diplomacy between Vietnam and Taiwan. Through manipulating the concept of culture, analyzing cultural dynamics: from the traditional tea-drinking culture of the Vietnamese people to the adoption of bubble tea culture originating from Taiwan, in the early 21st century in the context of international trade and globalization, we answered two research questions posed in the article about bubble tea culture of young people in Ho Chi Minh City. The world context in the 21st century has changed a lot; the Covid-19 pandemic from the end of 2019 until now has changed a lot of communications, lifestyles of many countries in the world; however, we believe that the culture of drinking tea, milk tea or bubble tea, fruit tea,…. will still exist as an essential element of the culinary culture of the two
countries, Vietnam and Taiwan, which have many similarities.